What's a web service in the context of the blockchain world?
So, a traditional web service it's just,
you've got a server and you may have some front in front
of it or some API gateway and then clients will query
that server and get back data right as it will render in the browser
or they will consume it at the command line or via program and do something with it.
The difference in the blockchain era is a web service's back-end is no longer
just a Postgres or MySQL database often in the cloud,
but it can also include
a decentralized blockchain backend or multiple de-centralized backends.
Notice that, web service in the era blockchain doesn't have
to only have a blockchain based backend but just another backend,
it's a sheared backend that
multiple different actors can read from and if they spend digital currency can write too.
So, that's what a web service is in the age of blockchain it's got usually both the
original Postgres based backend and it
can tap into one or more blockchain based de-centralized backends.
So, do companies in systems need to rewire
the entire stack to take adventure blockchain technology?
In some cases yes,
because what a blockchain represents is a completely new payment rail and whether
the complete new payment rail is
completely different often regulatory environment and
a completely different degree of risk tolerance for the business.
In my view, relatively few companies that
are Finance 1.0 or Wall Street 1.0 will be able to make the transition successfully.
If you look at what the internet did,
it has basically disrupted traditional books, newspapers, movies, music,
and relatively few of the incumbents are still around
today in the same form like Blockbuster was disrupted by
Netflix and Kodak was disrupted by Instagram and
the digital players have
different economics and cost structure and they came up in a different way.
I think blockchain has that same revolutionary potential.
Now with that said, some of the incumbents were
smart and they did at least play it a good defense.
The New York Times for example has a very good website,
many of the music and movie companies eventually did get into streaming simply
some defense and I do expect some of
the existing financial incumbents to play defense right?
So, the banks and when they're smart
enough that they are working on blockchain based things.
But it's not core to them,
they weren't built on the blockchain and they've got 50, 70,
100 years of legacy that they have to deal
with the theme of the New York Times still has log
in contracts because it's still doing paper news.
Something that's built on a blockchain has
a fundamental agility and advantage sure
that's something that's a legacy business doesn't have,
that's why it's challenging but not impossible for companies to
rip and replace or augment their existing payment systems with blockchain.